now Scotland's Parliament is set to
debate a ceasefire in the war on Gaza
first Minister hza USAF tabled a motion
last week calling for an immediate truce
a vote on The Proposal is set to take
place in the coming hours protesters are
gathered outside the parliament to
pressure their representatives well
ahead of that vote Scotland's first
Minister Hamza yusf has spoken to Al
jazer he's reiterated calls for an end
to the killing of
civilians my message to the world is a
very simple one there are is too much
killing too many innocent men women
children babies have lost their lives
they've not lost their lives they have
been killed and that is unacceptable and
as a world as an International Community
we cannot simply watch on and ignore
their suffering we have to act there has
to be an immediate ceasefire
agreed Al jairas Muhammad almad joins us
from outside the Scottish parliament in
Edinburgh the war in Gaza has gained a
lot of prominence there because of Hamza
USF the first of Scotland's connections
with Gaza what are members of the
Scottish Parliament saying about the
conflict indeed NE it happened in
another part of the world but it feels
very tense here it caused very uh
heightened tensions in Scotland and
everyone related to the In-laws of the
first Minister Hamza YF he uh looked uh
relieved today when we interviewed him
uh but he described the moment of having
his in-laws coming back to Scotland uh
as bittersweet because uh whom they left
behind them people civilians innocent
civilians uh including women and
children who are still under bment this
is why he is tbling this motion that has
been uh uh debated in the parliament in
the last couple of hours and the
decision time will be uh in the next
hour to vote on uh an immediate
ceasefire in Gaza uh and we've been uh
hearing from uh different MPS uh msps in
uh Hollywood here in the Scottish
Parliament there's uh uh almost a
consensus aside from uh the conservative
Scottish party uh it seems that all
other parties will be voting for uh in
favor of uh an immediate seiz fire in
the next hour here in the Scottish
Parliament actually there's lots of
debate about the effect of this war on
the communities there's affirmation from
all the parties that Jewish uh Muslim
and Palestinian communities here in
Scotland has to be uh and to stay United
and to call for a ceasefire and to work
for a ceasefire right uh and the uh
first Minister he called all parties to
uh uh uphold the international
humanitarian law and the Scottish
national party that is of course Hamza
usf's party recently tabled a motion in
the British Parliament in London Calling
for a ceasefire that was rejected but it
has shown some big political divisions
especially within the opposition labor
party who may well be in power in 18
months time over the war in
Gaza and interestingly here the Scottish
labor party an the leader of the
Scottish labor party has confirmed
moments ago that he will vote for an
immediate ceasefire he's diverging
himself
uh from the position held by the leader
of the labor party sir kir Sarma that we
saw uh in the last week when most of the
labor MPS voted against a ceasefire in
Gaza and they tabled their own uh
amended the motion now here in the
Scottish Parliament uh Labor uh uh Ted
the amendment but the amendment uh is
just few tweaks here and there without
watering down the call for an IM sees
fire in Gaza Muhammad Al Al madun
speaking to us from outside the Scottish
Parliament thanks for the update